README.md, before:

# kudos
Kudos contract for NDC

## Setup [Testnet]

1. Build conrtact
```
RUSTFLAGS='-C link-arg=-s' cargo build --all --target wasm32-unknown-unknown --release
```
2. Init contract
```
near call $CONRTACT_ID init '{"iah_registry": "registry-unstable.i-am-human.testnet"}' --accountId rubycoptest.testnet
near call $CONRTACT_ID set_external_db '{"external_db_id": "v1.social08.testnet"}' --accountId rubycoptest.testnet --amount 5
```
3. Deploy it on testnet
```
near dev-deploy target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/kudos_contract.wasm
```

## Public methods

### Give kudos

Allows caller to grant kudos to a receiver NEAR account

#### Requirements

User must be human verified (should have minted and valid i-am-human SBT)
Minimum gas required: 67 TGas (300 TGas recommended)
Deposit required: 0.1 Ⓝ

#### Interface

```
give_kudos(receiver_id, message, icon_cid, hashtags): kudos id

- receiver_id: user's NEAR account id who should be granted with kudos
- message: followed commentary message text to the kudos granted. By default limits to 1000 characters
- icon_cid: optional valid CID for icon (image) at ipfs
- hashtags: optional array of user-specified tags (limited to 32 characters by default, and allows to use only alphanumeric characters, underscores and gyphens). By default maximum allowed number of hashtags is 10
```

#### Output

Returns unique kudos identifier or panics with an error message

Example JSON written to SocialDB:
```
{
  "kudos.near": {
    "kudos": {
      "some_user.near": {
        "1": {
          "created_at": "1689976833613",
          "sender_id": "alex.near",
          "kind": "k",
          "message": "that user is awesome",
          "icon": "bafybeigrf2dwtpjkiovnigysyto3d55opf6qkdikx6d65onrqnfzwgdkfa",
          "upvotes": {},
          "comments": {},
          "tags": "[\"firstkudos\",\"awesomework\"]",
        }
      }
    },
    "hashtags": {
      "firstkudos": {
        "1": "alex.near"
      },
      "awesomework": {
        "1": "alex.near"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Upvote kudos

Allows caller to upvote kudos by unique id granted to a receiver NEAR account

#### Requirements

User must be human verified (should have minted and valid i-am-human SBT)
Caller can't be a NEAR account which granted kudos
Caller can't be a receiver NEAR account
Caller could upvote specified kudos only once
Minimum gas required: 92 TGas (300 TGas recommended)
Deposit required: 0.004 Ⓝ

#### Interface

```
upvote_kudos(receiver_id, kudos_id): timestamp

- receiver_id: user's NEAR account id whos unique kudos should be upvoted
- kudos_id: unique kudos identified granted to a receiver NEAR account
```

#### Output

Returns stringified timestamp of block when kudos was upvoted or panics with an error message

Example JSON written to SocialDB:
```
{
  "kudos.near": {
    "kudos": {
      "some_user.near": {
        "1": {
          "upvotes": {
            "bob.near": ""
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Leave commentary message to kudos

Allows caller to leave a commentary message to kudos by unique id granted to a receiver NEAR account

#### Requirements

User must be human verified (should have minted and valid i-am-human SBT)
Caller can't be a receiver NEAR account (User can't comment his kudos)
Minimum gas required: 92 TGas (300 TGas recommended)
Deposit required: 0.017 Ⓝ

#### Interface

```
leave_comment(receiver_id, kudos_id, message): commentary id

- receiver_id: user's NEAR account id whos unique kudos should be upvoted
- kudos_id: unique kudos identified granted to a receiver NEAR account
- message: followed commentary message text to the kudos. By default limits to 1000 characters
```

#### Output

Returns unique commentary identifier or panics with an error message

Example JSON written to SocialDB:
```
{
  "kudos.near": {
    "kudos": {
      "some_user.near": {
        "1": {
          "comments": {
            "2": "eyJtIjoiY29tbWVudGFyeSB0ZXN0IiwicyI6InVzZXIubmVhciIsInQiOiIxMjM0NTY3ODkwIn0="
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Exchange upvoted kudos for ProofOfKudos SBT

Allows caller to exchange his upvoted kudos by unique id for a ProofOfKudos SBT

#### Requirements

User must be human verified (should have minted and valid i-am-human SBT)
Caller should be granted with kudos by provided unique identifier
Caller can exchange his upvoted kudos only once
Kudos should have minimum required number of upvotes. By default is 3 upvotes
Minimum gas required: 87 TGas (300 TGas recommended)
Deposit required: 0.008 Ⓝ

#### Interface

```
exchange_kudos_for_sbt(kudos_id): array of minted SBTs

- kudos_id: unique kudos identified granted to a caller NEAR account
```

#### Output

Returns an array of minted ProofOfKudos SBTs in exchange for kudos or panics with an error message

Commit message:

add a parent comment id for leave_comment, allow user to reply to other comments

README.md, after:

# kudos
Kudos contract for NDC

## Setup [Testnet]

1. Build conrtact
```
RUSTFLAGS='-C link-arg=-s' cargo build --all --target wasm32-unknown-unknown --release
```
2. Init contract
```
near call $CONRTACT_ID init '{"iah_registry": "registry-unstable.i-am-human.testnet"}' --accountId rubycoptest.testnet
near call $CONRTACT_ID set_external_db '{"external_db_id": "v1.social08.testnet"}' --accountId rubycoptest.testnet --amount 5
```
3. Deploy it on testnet
```
near dev-deploy target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/kudos_contract.wasm
```

## Public methods

### Give kudos

Allows caller to grant kudos to a receiver NEAR account

#### Requirements

User must be human verified (should have minted and valid i-am-human SBT)
Minimum gas required: 67 TGas (300 TGas recommended)
Deposit required: 0.1 Ⓝ

#### Interface

```
give_kudos(receiver_id, message, icon_cid, hashtags): kudos id

- receiver_id: user's NEAR account id who should be granted with kudos
- message: followed commentary message text to the kudos granted. By default limits to 1000 characters
- icon_cid: optional valid CID for icon (image) at ipfs
- hashtags: optional array of user-specified tags (limited to 32 characters by default, and allows to use only alphanumeric characters, underscores and gyphens). By default maximum allowed number of hashtags is 10
```

#### Output

Returns unique kudos identifier or panics with an error message

Example JSON written to SocialDB:
```
{
  "kudos.near": {
    "kudos": {
      "some_user.near": {
        "1": {
          "created_at": "1689976833613",
          "sender_id": "alex.near",
          "kind": "k",
          "message": "that user is awesome",
          "icon": "bafybeigrf2dwtpjkiovnigysyto3d55opf6qkdikx6d65onrqnfzwgdkfa",
          "upvotes": {},
          "comments": {},
          "tags": "[\"firstkudos\",\"awesomework\"]",
        }
      }
    },
    "hashtags": {
      "firstkudos": {
        "1": "alex.near"
      },
      "awesomework": {
        "1": "alex.near"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Upvote kudos

Allows caller to upvote kudos by unique id granted to a receiver NEAR account

#### Requirements

User must be human verified (should have minted and valid i-am-human SBT)
Caller can't be a NEAR account which granted kudos
Caller can't be a receiver NEAR account
Caller could upvote specified kudos only once
Minimum gas required: 92 TGas (300 TGas recommended)
Deposit required: 0.004 Ⓝ

#### Interface

```
upvote_kudos(receiver_id, kudos_id): timestamp

- receiver_id: user's NEAR account id whos unique kudos should be upvoted
- kudos_id: unique kudos identified granted to a receiver NEAR account
```

#### Output

Returns stringified timestamp of block when kudos was upvoted or panics with an error message

Example JSON written to SocialDB:
```
{
  "kudos.near": {
    "kudos": {
      "some_user.near": {
        "1": {
          "upvotes": {
            "bob.near": ""
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Leave commentary message to kudos

Allows caller to leave a commentary message to kudos by unique id granted to a receiver NEAR account

#### Requirements

User must be human verified (should have minted and valid i-am-human SBT)
User can't leave a comment for his kudos, but it can reply to other comments
Minimum gas required: 92 TGas (300 TGas recommended)
Deposit required: 0.017 Ⓝ

#### Interface

```
leave_comment(receiver_id, kudos_id, parent_comment_id, message): commentary id

- receiver_id: user's NEAR account id whos unique kudos should be upvoted
- kudos_id: unique kudos identified granted to a receiver NEAR account
- parent_comment_id: optional parent commentary id which this new comment is a reply for. By default, if not specified, every commentary relates to kudos id
- message: followed commentary message text to the kudos. By default limits to 1000 characters
```

#### Output

Returns unique commentary identifier or panics with an error message

Example JSON written to SocialDB:
```
{
  "kudos.near": {
    "kudos": {
      "some_user.near": {
        "1": {
          "comments": {
            "2": "eyJtIjoiY29tbWVudGFyeSB0ZXN0IiwicyI6InVzZXIubmVhciIsInQiOiIxMjM0NTY3ODkwIn0="
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Exchange upvoted kudos for ProofOfKudos SBT

Allows caller to exchange his upvoted kudos by unique id for a ProofOfKudos SBT

#### Requirements

User must be human verified (should have minted and valid i-am-human SBT)
Caller should be granted with kudos by provided unique identifier
Caller can exchange his upvoted kudos only once
Kudos should have minimum required number of upvotes. By default is 3 upvotes
Minimum gas required: 87 TGas (300 TGas recommended)
Deposit required: 0.008 Ⓝ

#### Interface

```
exchange_kudos_for_sbt(kudos_id): array of minted SBTs

- kudos_id: unique kudos identified granted to a caller NEAR account
```

#### Output

Returns an array of minted ProofOfKudos SBTs in exchange for kudos or panics with an error message
